GitHub Actions/UI Onboarding Flow (#2867)
astronomer/docs: astro/first-DAG-github-actions.md

---
sidebar_label: 'With GitHub Actions'
title: 'Run your first DAG with GitHub Actions'
id: 'first-DAG-github-actions'
---

import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

> This quickstart explains the steps required to deploy an example DAG to Astro and trigger a DAG run with Github Actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro is the industry's leading managed service for Apache Airflow. To quickly learn how Astro works, follow the steps in this quickstart to create an Airflow environment and run your first DAG with GitHub Actions.
```

Specifically, you will:

> - Start an Astro trial

Author: ```suggestion
- Start an Astro trial.
```

- Create a Deployment. 

> - Configure GitHub Actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fork an example GitHub repository with a new Astro project.
- Configure GitHub Actions.
```

> - Deploy DAGs to Astro in the Cloud UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Trigger the GitHub Action to deploy an example DAG to Astro.
```

> - Trigger a run of an example DAG in the Airflow UI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Trigger a run of the example DAG in the Airflow UI. 
```

> The steps take about 15 minutes. If you prefer to use a CLI, you can alternatively create and run your first DAG [using the Astro CLI](first-DAG-cli.md) in the same amount of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps take about 15 minutes. If you prefer to use a CLI and set up a local Airflow environment, you can alternatively create and run your first DAG [using the Astro CLI](first-DAG-cli.md) in the same amount of time.
```

Author: So this isn't correct - we don't have them set up a local Airflow environment in first-dag-CLI, it's just a DAG deployment, not an image build.

> This tutorial assumes that you know some basic Airflow concepts. If you're new to Airflow and want a more general introduction, see [Write your First DAG](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/get-started-with-airflow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial assumes that you're familiar with basic Apache Airflow concepts. If you're new to Airflow and want a more general introduction, see [Write your First DAG](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/get-started-with-airflow).
```

Reviewer: Let's actually link to the Airflow 101 course on Academy -- and in the Astro CLI doc as well

## Prerequisites

- An Astro account. To start an Astro trial and create your free trial account, see [Start a trial](trial.md).

> - A [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/signing-up-for-github) account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [GitHub account](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/signing-up-for-github).
```

- A [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/signing-up-for-github) account.

:::info

If you're on your organization's network and can't access Astro, make a request to allowlist the following domains on your network:

- `https://cloud.astronomer.io/`
- `https://api.astronomer.io/`
- `https://images.astronomer.cloud/`
- `https://auth.astronomer.io/`
- `https://updates.astronomer.io/`
- `https://install.astronomer.io/`
- `https://astro-<your-org>.datakin.com/`
- `https://<your-org>.astronomer.run/`

:::

> 

Author: Step 1 - log in to astro

4. Click **Create Deployment**.

    A confirmation message appears indicating that the Deployment status is **Creating** until all underlying components in the Deployment are healthy. During this time, the Airflow UI is unavailable and you can't deploy code or modify Deployment settings. When the Deployment is ready, the status changes to **Healthy**.
    
    For more information about possible Deployment health statuses, see [Deployment health](deployment-metrics.md#deployment-health). Or, to learn more about how to customize your Deployment settings, see [Deployment settings](deployment-settings.md).

:::tip

Astro contains an in-product tutorial that guides you through Steps 2-4 of this document and includes shortcut buttons for some key Astro actions. If you prefer to finish the quickstart this way, open your Deployment page in the Cloud UI. In the **Deploy your first DAG** window, click **With GitHub Actions** and follow the steps in the window that appears. 

:::

## Step 2: Fork the example project repository

Open a new tab or browser window and [make a fork of the example project repository](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-example-dags/fork) on GitHub.

> This repository contains an _Astro project_, which is a collection of files required for running Airflow on Astro. An Astro project includes folders for DAG files, plugins, dependencies, and more.

Reviewer: I'd better introduce and include more info about the repository upfront at the top of this section, and then break down the fork part in 2-3 steps

Specifically, this Astro project includes an example DAG which, when you run it, retrieves a list of countries from an Astro S3 data store and filters the list through a data transform. The repository also includes a pre-configured [Astronomer deploy action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action). In the next step, you'll configure this action to deploy code from your forked repository to Astro.

## Step 3: Set up the GitHub Actions Workflow

To configure code deploys from your GitHub repository to Astro, you must have two browser windows open at the same time: one with the [Cloud UI](https://cloud.astronomer.io), and one with your forked GitHub repository.

> 1. In the Cloud UI, choose the Deployment where you want to deploy your repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, choose the Deployment where you want to deploy your Astro project. 
```

3. Click **I understand my workflows, go ahead and enable them.**

  The [workflow](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-example-dags/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy-to-astro.yaml) is a script that uses API tokens to deploy DAGs from a GitHub repository to your Deployment, without requiring any local development.

5. Choose the **Astronomer CI - Deploy Code** workflow. 

6. Click **Run workflow**. This opens a modal to enter information about your Astro Deployment.

7. In the Cloud UI, copy your **Deployment ID** from the Deployment information. 

8. In GitHub, paste your **Deployment ID**.

9. In the Cloud UI, click **API Tokens**.

10. Click **+ API Token** to create a new API token, and give the token a **Name** and an **Expiration**.

11. Click **Create API Token**, then copy the token that appears.

    :::caution

    For security reasons, this is the only opportunity you have to copy your API token. After you exit the modal window, you cannot copy it again. Be sure to save your token in a safe place or paste it immediately.

    :::

12. In GitHub, paste the API Token in the **API Token** field on your GitHub Actions workflow page.

13. Click **Run workflow**. 

> This automatically deploys the example DAGs to your Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This automatically deploys the example DAGs in your Astro project to your Deployment.
```

This automatically deploys the example DAGs to your Deployment.

## Step 4: Run your DAG in Airflow

> Open your Deployment in the Cloud UI and click **DAGs** in the left sidebar, then click **S3**. From this page, you can see that the `s3` DAG has run exactly once. 

Author: ```suggestion
Open your Deployment in the Cloud UI and click **DAGs**, then click **S3**. From this page, you can see that the `s3` DAG has run exactly once. 
```

![Detailed view of the S3 DAG run outcome.](/img/docs/s3-complete.png)

> The **DAGs** page compiles the most commonly used information and actions from the Airflow UI in one place. If you prefer to view your DAG run in the Airflow UI, click **Open Airflow** in the upper right corner of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **DAGs** page of the Cloud UI includes the most commonly used information and actions from the Airflow UI in one place. If you prefer to view your DAG run in the Airflow UI, click **Open Airflow** in the upper right corner of the page.
```

> Congratulations! You deployed and ran a DAG to your Astro Deployment using GitHub Actions!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You deployed and ran your first DAG on Astro with GitHub Actions.
```

## Next Steps

> - Install [the CLI](/astro/cli/install-cli.md)
> - [Write your First DAG](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/get-started-with-airflow).
> - Develop your [Astro project](/astro/cli/run-airflow-locally)
> - Read more about [Developing CI/CD workflows](set-up-ci-cd.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Develop your [Astro project](/astro/cli/run-airflow-locally)
- Read more about [Developing CI/CD workflows](set-up-ci-cd.md)
- Install [the CLI](/astro/cli/install-cli.md) to test DAGs or run Airflow locally
- [Write your First DAG](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/get-started-with-airflow)
```

- Create a Deployment. 
- Configure GitHub Actions.
- Deploy DAGs to Astro in the Cloud UI.
- Trigger a run of an example DAG in the Airflow UI. 

The steps take about 15 minutes. If you prefer to use a CLI, you can alternatively create and run your first DAG [using the Astro CLI](first-DAG-cli.md) in the same amount of time.

This tutorial assumes that you know some basic Airflow concepts. If you're new to Airflow and want a more general introduction, see [Write your First DAG](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/get-started-with-airflow).

## Prerequisites

- An Astro account. To start an Astro trial, see [Start a trial](trial.md).
- A [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/signing-up-for-github) account.

:::info

If you're on your organization's network and can't access Astro, make a request to allowlist the following domains on your network:

- `https://cloud.astronomer.io/`
- `https://api.astronomer.io/`
- `https://images.astronomer.cloud/`
- `https://auth.astronomer.io/`
- `https://updates.astronomer.io/`
- `https://install.astronomer.io/`
- `https://astro-<your-org>.datakin.com/`
- `https://<your-org>.astronomer.run/`

:::

## Step 1: Create a Deployment

> An Astro _Deployment_ is an instance of Apache Airflow that is powered by all core Airflow components, including a webserver, scheduler, and one or more workers. You deploy DAGs to a Deployment, and you can have one or more Deployments within a Workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Astro _Deployment_ is an instance of Apache Airflow that is powered by all core Airflow components, including a webserver, scheduler, and one or more workers. You deploy DAGs to a Deployment, and you can have one or more Deployments within your Workspace.
```

4. Click **Create Deployment**.

    A confirmation message appears indicating that the Deployment status is **Creating** until all underlying components in the Deployment are healthy. During this time, the Airflow UI is unavailable and you can't deploy code or modify Deployment settings. When the Deployment is ready, the status changes to **Healthy**.
    
    For more information about possible Deployment health statuses, see [Deployment health](deployment-metrics.md#deployment-health). Or, to learn more about how to customize your Deployment settings, see [Deployment settings](deployment-settings.md).

:::tip

Astro contains an in-product tutorial that guides you through Steps 2-4 of this document and includes shortcut buttons for some key Astro actions. If you prefer to finish the quickstart this way, open your Deployment page in the Cloud UI. In the **Deploy your first DAG** window, click **With GitHub Actions** and follow the steps in the window that appears. 

:::

## Step 2: Fork the example project repository

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Open a new tab or browser window and [make a fork of the example project repository](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-example-dags/fork) on GitHub.

This repository contains an _Astro project_, which is a collection of files required for running Airflow on Astro. An Astro project includes folders for DAG files, plugins, dependencies, and more.

Specifically, this Astro project includes an example DAG which, when you run it, retrieves a list of countries from an Astro S3 data store and filters the list through a data transform. The repository also includes a pre-configured [Astronomer deploy action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action). In the next step, you'll configure this action to deploy code from your forked repository to Astro.

> ## Step 3: Set up the GitHub Actions Workflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Step 3: Set up the GitHub Actions Workflow
```

1. In the Cloud UI, choose the Deployment where you want to deploy your repository. 

2. In GitHub, open your forked repository and click **Actions**.

3. Click **I understand my workflows, go ahead and enable them.**

  The [workflow](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-example-dags/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy-to-astro.yaml) is a script that uses API tokens to deploy DAGs from a GitHub repository to your Deployment, without requiring any local development.

5. Choose the **Astronomer CI - Deploy Code** workflow. 

6. Click **Run workflow**. This opens a modal to enter information about your Astro Deployment.

7. In the Cloud UI, copy your **Deployment ID** from the Deployment information. 

8. In GitHub, paste your **Deployment ID**.

9. In the Cloud UI, click **API Tokens**.

10. Click **+ API Token** to create a new API token, and give the token a **Name** and an **Expiration**.

11. Click **Create API Token**, then copy the token that appears.

    :::warning

>     For security reasons, this is the only opportunity you have to copy your API token. After you exit the modal window, you cannot copy it again. Be sure to save your token in a safe place or paste it immediately.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a sentence here to explain that if they lose it, they should just create a new one? I could also see downgrading this to a `caution` note, since nothing really explodes if you fail to copy the token

    :::

12. In GitHub, paste the API Token in the **API Token** field on your GitHub Actions workflow page.

13. Click **Run workflow**. 

This automatically deploys the example DAGs to your Deployment.

## Step 4: Run your DAG in Airflow

> Open your Deployment in the Cloud UI and click **DAGs** in the left sidebar, then click **S3**. From this page, you can see that the `s3` DAG has run exactly once. 

Reviewer 2: Reupping my comment here that it would be great to have a screenshot of this

4. Click **Create Deployment**.

    A confirmation message appears indicating that the Deployment status is **Creating** until all underlying components in the Deployment are healthy. During this time, the Airflow UI is unavailable and you can't deploy code or modify Deployment settings. When the Deployment is ready, the status changes to **Healthy**.
    
    For more information about possible Deployment health statuses, see [Deployment health](deployment-metrics.md#deployment-health). Or, to learn more about how to customize your Deployment settings, see [Deployment settings](deployment-settings.md).

You can now complete the remaining steps to deploy a DAG using GitHub actions by either using this document or by following the instructions in the Cloud UI. On your Deployment page, click **Deploy your first DAG ... with GitHub Actions** to view the remaining instructions on the Deployment details page in the Cloud UI.

## Step 2: Fork the example DAGs Repository

The example DAGs repository contains an _Astro Project_ which contains the set of files necessary to run Airflow, including dedicated folders for your DAG files, plugins, and dependencies. 

> In this tutorial, you'll be deploying these example DAGs to your Deployment on Astro with GitHub Actions.
> 
> 1. Open a new tab or browser window and make a fork of the example DAGs Repository on [GitHub](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-example-dags/fork).
> 
>   :::info
>   
>   This repository contains an example Astro project that's similar to the project that `astro dev init` creates when you run your first DAG [with the CLI](first-DAG-cli.md).
> 
>   :::
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open a new tab or browser window and [make a fork of the example project repository](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-example-dags/fork) on GitHub.

This repository contains an _Astro project_, which is a collection of files required for running Airflow on Astro. An Astro project includes folders for DAG files, plugins, dependencies, and more.

Specifically, this Astro project includes an example DAG which, when you run it, retrieves a list of countries from an Astro S3 data store and filters the list through a data transform. The repository also includes a pre-configured [Astronomer deploy action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action). In the next step, you'll configure this action to deploy code from your forked repository to Astro.
```

Reviewer 2: Feel free to edit this, but I tried clearing up the Astro project wording and foregrounding the setup.

## Step 3: Set up the GitHub Actions Workflow

> To enable GitHub to Deploy DAGs to your Astro workspace, you need to connect your Astro account with the workflow on GitHub. This means you need to have two browser windows open at the same time - one with the Cloud UI and one to your GitHub account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure code deploys from your GitHub repository to Astro, you must have two browser windows open at the same time: one with the [Cloud UI](https://cloud.astronomer.io), and one with your forked GitHub repository.
```
This is less about accounts and more about tokens/ repositories

> 1. Open the [Cloud UI](https://cloud.astronomer.io) to your Deployments page. Choose the Deployment where you want to deploy DAGs to. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, choose the Deployment where you want to deploy your repository. 
```

> 2. Open a new tab to the GitHub repository where you forked the example DAGs Repository.
> 
> 3. In GitHub, choose **Actions** from the repository menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In GitHub, open your forked repository and click **Actions**.
```

> 4. Click **I understand my workflows, go ahead and enable them.**
> 
>   The [workflow](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-example-dags/blob/c2c63ced1923488d797ce0eba6b37f5658e92570/.github/workflows/deploy-to-astro.yaml) is a script that uses API tokens to deploy DAGs from a GitHub repository to your Deployment, without requiring any local development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **I understand my workflows, go ahead and enable them.**

  The [workflow](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-example-dags/blob/main/.github/workflows/deploy-to-astro.yaml) is a script that uses API tokens to deploy DAGs from a GitHub repository to your Deployment, without requiring any local development.
```

> 5. Choose **Astronomer CI - Deploy Code** workflow. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Choose the **Astronomer CI - Deploy Code** workflow. 
```

> 6. Click **Run workflow**. This opens a modal to enter your Astro Deployment information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click **Run workflow**. This opens a modal to enter information about your Astro Deployment.
```

7. In the Cloud UI, copy your **Deployment ID** from the Deployment information. 

8. In GitHub, paste your **Deployment ID**.

> 9. On your **Deployment** page in the Cloud UI, click **API Tokens**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. In the Cloud UI, click **API Tokens**.
```

> 10. Click **API Token** to create a new API Token, and then enter a **Name** and choose the **Expiration**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. Click **+ API Token** to create a new API token, and give the token a **Name** and an **Expiration**.
```
API token is a general term, so we don't capitalize is (unless it's a UI heading)

> 11. Click **Create API Token** to make your new token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. Click **Create API Token**, then copy the token that appears.
```

  :::danger

  For security reasons, this is the only opportunity you have to copy your API token. After you exit the modal window, you cannot copy it again. Be sure to save your token in a safe place or paste it immediately.

  :::

> 12. Copy the API Token and paste in the **API Token** field on your GitHub Actions workflow page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. In GitHub, paste the API Token in the **API Token** field on your GitHub Actions workflow page.
```

> 13. Then click, **Run workflow**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
13. Click **Run workflow**. 
```

This automatically deploys the example DAGs to your Deployment.

## Step 4: Run your DAG in Airflow

> 1. On your **Deployments** page the Cloud UI, choose the Deployment where you deployed your DAGs. Then, click **Open in Airflow**.
> 
> 2. **Unpause** the **S3** DAG and click **Run**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open your Deployment in the Cloud UI and click **DAGs** in the left sidebar, then click **S3**. From this page, you can see that the `s3` DAG has run exactly once. 

The **DAGs** page compiles the most commonly used information and actions from the Airflow UI in one place. If you prefer to view your DAG run in the Airflow UI, click **Open Airflow** in the upper right corner of the page.
```
Would be great to include a screenshot here of the DAGs page after the run.
